---
title: RTG Computational Cognition
layout: newspage
subtitle: 
date: 2018-05-07
author: Pascal Nieters
img: compcog.png
thumbnail: compcog.png
description: Understanding human and machine intelligence is the focus questions of the new research training group supported with 3.1M euros by DFG.
permalink: /2018-05-07/
---

We are happy to report that the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft DFG will fund the research training group (RTG) **Computational Cognition**. As decided on the DFG's
spring comissiong, University Osnabrück will receive 3.1M Euros in funding over 4.5 half years to invest into young academics and junior scientists.

The RTG **Computational Cognition** aims to imporve our understanding of intelligence in both humans and machines. The problem of connecting lower and higher 
levels of cognitive processes will take center stage: *The problems most interesting to us are those that are easy for humans to solve but are still considered hard
for artificial systems. Among others, this includes analogies, introduction of new concepts and pragmatic reasoning*, says RTG speaker Prof. Dr. Gordon Pipa. The group
of young researchers will bring together the fields of cognitive science and artificial intelligence.

*The research training group Computational Cognition further consolidates the research focus of the institute of cognitive science and our research hub Cognition in
a highly innovative field of research*, according to Prof. Dr. Susanne Menzel, vice president for research and junior development programs. *Congratulations to Prof.
Dr. Pipa and Prof. Dr. Peter König. We are pleased that the project will in particular support the education of young researchers.*

Research training groups afford graduate students the opportunity of writing a doctoral thesis supported by a structured research and qualification program. Up
to nine young scientists will be able to secure financial support working in the group. Positions will open soon.